Let me say a few words about COVID 19 and about science broadly.
I think science is beautiful and powerful.
It is the striving of the human mind to understand and to solve the problems of
the world. But as an institution,
it is susceptible to the flaws of human nature,
to fear greed power and, and ego.
2020 is a story of all of these that has both scientific triumph and tragedy.
We needed great leaders and we didn't get them.
What we needed is leaders who communicate in an honest, transparent,
and authentic way about the uncertainty of what we know and a large scale
scientific efforts to reduce that uncertainty and to develop solutions.
I believe there are several candidates for solutions that could have all saved
hundreds of billions of dollars and lessened or eliminated the
suffering of millions of people.
Let me mention five of the categories of solutions masks at home testing,
anonymized, contact tracing, antiviral, drugs,
and vaccines within each of these categories,
institutional leaders should have constantly asked and answered publicly.
Honestly, the following three questions. One,
what data do we have on the solution?
And what studies are we running to get more and better data?
Two given the current data and uncertainty,
how effect and how safe is the solution? Three,
what is the timeline and cost involved with mass manufacturing,
distribution of the solution in the service of these questions?
No voices should have been silenced. No ideas left off the table, open data,
open science, open, honest, scientific communication,
and debate was the way not sign.
There are a lot of ideas out there that are bad, wrong, dangerous,
but the moment we have the hubris to say, we know which ideas those are,
is the moment we'll lose our ability to define the truth,
to find solutions that vary things that make science beautiful and powerful
in the face of all the dangers that threat and the wellbeing and the existence
of humans on earth.
This conversation with Brett is less about the ideas we talk about.
We agree some disagree on others.
It is much more about the very freedom to talk, to think,
to share ideas.
This freedom is our only hope Brett should never have been censored.
I asked Brad to do this podcast to show solidarity and to show that I have hope
for science and for humanity.